like i've just gone through a year of bad times and
now i'm going to get to dish it out to somebody else
and and i even as a freshman i began to think that
that was a rather unprogressive
attitude because the result of it i could see was
that that everybody wanted to add a little bit.
And, you know, and I could see that if the Corps went
that direction that we were going to be, within a
few years, we were going to be right back to the same
state that had put them out at the Air Force base to
start out with. So anyway, the sophomores were
usually more aggressive in hazing the freshmen
than anybody else. Did your official lady become a
special friend? Well, we were good friends before
we went, but he decided that he was going to leave
A&M after his, about halfway through his second
semester at A&M. And then not too long later, or
before the semester was over, he decided he wanted
to stay, but by then his grades had deteriorated to
the point that he flunked out. So he went away and, I
had not seen him since until about two years ago.
And I actually saw him for the first time. He didn't
transfer. He didn't go somewhere else and make it
up. Well, eventually he went somewhere. I think he
went to a small Baptist school over in North
Carolina or someplace and graduated over there.
Describe your room that freshman year. What was in
it? How much time did y'all spend there at night and
so forth? Well,
the,
can we stop this for just a second? So, we were in
Milner Hall and so Milner was, four stories but the
first floor was slightly recessed below street
level so I was in one of those lower rooms
the windows opened right out onto almost onto a
flower bed or no flowers of course, but a sidewalk
more or less. Our room had two study desks. It had a
metal bunk bed, had closets, two closets. We had
space for our foot lockers and I guess that's all
there was in that room. And were you allowed to have
your radio out on the table or? You could have your
radio out but you couldn't play it during call to
quarters which was like from 7 in the evening until
10 and then you had a little time to get ready to go to
bed and you had to go to bed unless you had a pass to
stay up and study. So I don't know when you could
listen to the radio in the afternoon or something
like that but you couldn't really use a radio
during study period. Now where were the restroom
and shower facilities? Well that building had
them on each floor and so they were not too far away.
Did your outfit have the whole building? Your
company?
I think there was another company in that dorm. It
was the
Quartermaster Company. And your outfit didn't
have a nickname? No. No, we didn't. How long was it
before there were some jokes or pranks or good bull
in the, in that dorm? Those things started fairly
early. I'm just remembering that my freshman
outfit was Company 11. it was a combination of
quartermaster people and transportation corps
people. And so later, My sophomore year then, I was
in a transportation corps, and then there was
another unit that was the quartermaster company.
And so Murray Milford, who you know, was in that
same unit with me. And he went into the
quartermaster company, and I went into the
transportation corps. Same freshman year? Same
freshman year.
But there were several high school athletes in our
unit, and they were among the ones that began to get
into the Good Bull first. And then there were some
other students. I remember one in particular who I
could pretty much tell from the beginning was not
going to survive academically because he spent
all of his time, you know, trying to dump water on
somebody in the middle of the night or something
like that. And there was a sort of a negative
correlation between how interested you were in
Good Bull and whether or not you, you know, were
passing all your courses or not. The, when your
outfit fell in, and was there, you marched to
Sabeasa, which wasn't very far, But did you ever,
did they get the entire Corps together? And if so,
did you all have to march all the way to Duncan?
Well, we, I can't remember ever eating, as a
freshman, I can't remember ever going to Duncan or
ever marching over there. We did have parades and,
you know, the drill field now was the drill field
then. So then the Corps was called together there.
Right. We would go there and
there would be, I think it was Thursday afternoon,
there was all our ROTC units had some kind of a drill
activity and sometimes we'd end up on the drill
field there in front of where the MSC is. How soon
was it after you got here that you saw and heard the
campus leaders, administrators, commandant,
president, and so forth? Well, we heard them the
first week of orientation. Who were they then? Was
Gilchrist the president? I think he was. I don't
remember hearing him, but I remember, it seems
like the commandant was Joe Davis, I think. But I do
remember hearing some of those people. And then
not too long after that, David Morgan was hired as
the president of the college. And I remember I
think as a sophomore, all of the core
upperclassmen were called together and told that
we were, you know, that this business of having the
freshmen back in, they were going to put the
freshmen back in the units. And we were going to be
the ones that would determine whether they would
be successful or not or whether they'd have to
abandon that. And so I remember they made a real
strong, pitch for us to be responsible in the way we
treated the freshmen. When you went to class, what
was your normal routine? What did you take with
you? Where did you sit? What was your game plan for
academics?
Well, I remember as a high school graduate, I went
and bought a kind of a a briefcase like thing and as
soon as I got here I figured out that that was a
mistake and no one took more than one or two
notebooks, spiral notebooks. People usually
didn't carry their textbooks to class and uh you
went to class and took notes in most classes that I
was in we were assigned seats and the instructors
checked roll based on which seats were empty and so
you didn't have to worry about choosing where to
sit or anything you know it was uh you just you got
there I remember you know there were all kinds of
stories about instructors that that threw chalk
at students that went to sleep and various things,
you know. I never did really see anything like
that, I think. I
remember some classes that were pretty hard to
stay awake in. And did you pretty well spend your
evening studying in your room? As a freshman, yes.
You actually had to. But you could go to the library
if you got a pass or you could go study with somebody
else if you got a pass. But for some reason I really
found more than I needed to do just to study by
myself with my notes and books and everything. And
I do remember that we had quite a lot of homework and
a lot of courses, you know, math problems to work. I
don't remember what else, but it seemed like that I
was busy every afternoon and every night. The
Corps took up a huge amount of time being ready for
the formation, shining shoes, shining brass,
formations three meals a day, Yale practice two
nights a week, Midnight Yale practice if it was a
home game, core trips, drill, and probably
leaving out some other things, you know. But there
was just a big time burden involved in being in the
course. So by the time you did all that and then you
prepared for your classes, And I guess I really
learned how to study as a freshman, you know, that I
didn't really know that much about how to study as a
high school student because I had a really easy
time in high school. How much did you communicate
with your family back home that fall? Do you
remember? Well, I wrote letters. The only
accessible long distance phones were in the MSC in
a room near where the where the hotel desk is now.
And I think I made two long distance phone calls
that year. I went home one, two, three times. Three
times during the- Thanksgiving, Christmas,
Easter? Well, four times. Thanksgiving,
Christmas, Easter, and between semesters. And
how often did somebody back home write you?
I remember getting letters from my mother, but
they must not have come too often. She was still
teaching school and had two other kids at home. But
I remember writing letters and sending them home.
At that time, I was already dating the woman that I
married to. We dated all the way through my four
years of dating. So you wrote her some letters? I
wrote her some letters, and she wrote me some
letters. Where was she? She was at Electra. She was
at Electra, okay. Did you call her very often? No,
never. She didn't have a telephone. She lived out
in the country, and they were away from where they
could have a telephone. And let's see, mailboxes
were... At the MSC or Northgate? Both. You can have
one, I don't remember whether that was, I remember
my first year I had one at the, I think I had one at the
Northgate that year. I guess you had some option
about that and people tried to get at the MSC
because they were going to go there anyway usually
for something. If we could read all of those
letters you wrote that first year, do you think
they would show optimism,
increasing confidence in your ability to do the
work?
I think so. I
guess after about the halfway through my freshman
year, I really never had any doubt after that that I
was going to make it okay. And you never seriously
thought about transferring or dropping out? No.
The, as the fall began, do you remember
impressions of the first football game, some of
the first traditions, rituals?
Well, those things have all sort of run together,
but I I can't really separate the first one from any
of the others, but I remember the
freshmen had certain things they had to do that no
one else had to do during the games, and I remember
being questioned about who made which tackle or
carried the ball on which occasion you know the
next day and you were supposed to know everything
you know if you didn't know what was the punishment
uh just harassment you know it was mostly just
verbal verbal harassment now with saturday
classes there wasn't much time between your last
class on saturday and falling in to eat and march to
the game was there That's right. For day games, you
could be due to
formation for the game not too long after class,
but I don't remember ever missing any meals, but I
remember that they, you know, sort of adjusted the
schedule in the dining halls for whatever we had to
do. Everything revolved around the schedule of
the court. What about the core trips that year?
Describe going on a core trip. Well, I remember the
freshman core trip. One of the core trips would be
either TCU or SMU. And that year it was TCU. And my
parents came down and met us at the ball game. And I
think we went home with them after the game. So that
was a big treat. How did you get to Fort Worth? We
hitchhiked. That was just a real common thing in
those days. There were places out in front of the
campus where students stood to catch rides. And
you had to have a little suitcase with an Aggie
sticker on it and it was a more innocent time. You
know, people were not afraid to pick up
hitchhikers. Did you ever have, I presume you
hitchhiked for four years? No, but I hitchhiked a
lot that first year. My second year, I got a car. Oh,
okay. In all of your hitchhiking, did you ever have
a negative experience? Yeah,
I was picked up by a homosexual one time who was
rather aggressive and I finally just told him to
let me out. And that was, I guess that was, you know,
happened to more than one student. I've had a
couple of others and those are the only negative
other than somebody maybe driving a little too
fast, maybe having had another beer too many, but
nothing else? Nobody trying to rob anybody or
anything like that? No, I was picked up by somebody
that had been drinking too much one time. He was
driving a truck and he drove us away and then he
decided he needed something else to drink and my
roommate was with me at the time. We were together.
We decided we were going to look for another ride
and we found another ride. And there was almost an
unwritten directory of where were the best places
to go, to stand in almost every town, weren't
there? Yes. There were, you know, at Waco, for
example, and at Fort Worth, there were places you
were supposed to go, and you were not supposed to
upstream those places. You weren't supposed to
get closer to town than wherever that place was.
Now, there wasn't any written direct list of
those, were there? No. That was all just the... the
Aggie lower that was passed on from class to class.
Now did the special young lady come down to Fort
Worth that fall?
I can't remember. Seems like that she came to that
game at Fort Worth. And how did you feel as you were
marching with the Corps for the first time
somewhere else that day in Fort Worth? How did you
feel about A&M and so forth? Well, I felt very proud
to be representing A&M and to be in that group of
people. I thought basically that it was a good
group of people. We had the impression that we
didn't have a good reputation in the state, that
people thought we were ruffians.
used too much bad language and drank too much and
everything. You know, I didn't really do either
and I knew a lot of people that didn't do either and I
felt like, you know, that it was a good group of
people. Uh, and was there any verbal abuse had
thrown at the Corps as you all marched down? Not
that I remember. I haven't heard of anybody with
that either. No. And so you were with your family
and then you hitchhiked back the next day? Yes, it
had to be the next day. So we went home Saturday
night and by two o'clock on Sunday we had to start
back. About how long did it take you to hitchhike
from Iowa Park to, or Wichita Falls to College
Station? Well if you left at two o'clock on on
Sunday afternoon and you were lucky you'd be back
by 8 or 10 o'clock at night, you know. But I remember
one time getting back about 2 o'clock in the
morning. Now did you come through Fort Worth down
to Waco? Yes. And then came Highway 6 from there.
Other A&M traditions, do you remember going to
Silver Taps? Oh yes that was I remember silver caps
and I remember the muster that year
muster was a strange experience that year because
the Korean War was going on you know and they were
already described They were already reporting
people that were here the year before that were
killed since they had graduated and so that was, I
remember that was a moving experience. And Muster
was then held on the MSC steps or in Guyon? It seems
like it was in Guyon that year. Okay. uh and uh what
about bonfire your freshman year did you work on
bonfire i worked on bonfire but i had a it was it was
really a hard experience because uh uh We not only
moved all the logs from where they were cut to load
them on the trucks, but we did all the loading by
hand and all of the standing up of the logs at the
bonfire was done with ropes and pulleys over the
top of the bonfire. everything so and it I don't
remember it it seemed like it lasted for quite some
length of time you know not just a week or so and uh so
eventually I began to think of I need to study this
afternoon instead of work on that bonfire and I had
a a classmate in one of my classes who was not in the
corps and he had a room in the old a building called
Post Graduate Hall, which was behind Walton Hall.
And so I would two or three evenings or afternoons
during the later stages of Bonfire. I just went
over there and sat around and studied and kept from
working every minute. But Bonfire was a big
experience all of my four years. That effort your
freshman year, was it say a month or longer than
that? It's probably about a month. And bonfire was
held on the drill field? On the right in front of the
MSC. And do you remember any accident? Did anybody
get hurt or break a leg or cut anything badly? I
don't remember. I don't remember seeing
anything. I remember that during those four years
there may have been a few axe cuts or things, but
that's all I remember. Larry, go home
Thanksgiving, and what did you tell people about
A&M and how you were doing? Do you remember? No, I
don't. I don't particularly remember. I do
remember that I took my uniform and wore it. I
remember, you know, not having any hair and how I
embarrassed my wife. My wife now was, you know, for
me to show up, you know, just slick-headed as could
be. And, but you, you in no way were, were headed
away or anything like that. Then you go home
Christmas and you get, and your first semester
ends academically doing pretty well. Yes. Over a
two point. Well, in today's lingo, it would have
been over a three. Right, yeah. And your toughest
courses were what, in terms of making the grades?
Well, my lowest grades were in English, which was
interesting. when I eventually became a
scientist and my whole career was hinging on my
ability to speak and my ability to write. But, you
know, those guys taught me well enough, you know,
that I was equipped. I guess other than that, I
don't remember ever really struggling with
anything.
struggling to make an A instead of a B. And so that
was, you know, that's where most of my
work was done was trying to get my grade high enough
to get an A in a course. Alright, you go home after
your freshman year. What did you do that summer? I
believe that was the summer that I was a, I think,
that probably was the summer that I mowed right of
ways for the highway department. So my father had a
tractor. In that area? In that area. So we were sort
of contractors. What kind of pay did he get, do you
remember? Well with me and the tractor and the
mower and all of the maintenance on the mowing
apparatus we got ten dollars an hour. And uh..
That's pretty good pay wasn't it for that era?
Right. My father, well you know we had to keep the
tractor going and the gas and everything. But that
was quite a lot of money. So we split that. We put
five dollars per hour back into the tractor and I
got $5 an hour. Do you remember what a year here cost
you in round numbers?
My mother had money saved for my education. She was
one of nine children, all but one, all of them went
to college. That was. A very unusual family. Not
all of them graduated, you know. Some of them
graduated from two-year institutions. I think
one of them didn't go but one year. But all of them
but one taught at some time in their life. So mother
had, at great personal sacrifice, had saved money
for me to go to school and for the other, my brother
and sister too. And so I had $1,000 for the first
year, for each year actually. And I remember that I
had a couple of hundred dollars left when the year
was over. So it was about $800. What did you, for
your spending money, what did you spend it on while
you were here?
We had an early meal on Sunday evening that was
always cold cuts. And so that was sort of either
Saturday evening or Sunday evening, it was not too
unusual for guys to go out and eat someplace off
campus. And that was about it. I can't remember.
Where did, if you did, where did you eat? Well there
was a very limited number of places but I remember
there was a grocery store in North Bryan called
Wehrman's that was had a sort of a auxiliary dining
room there and we went there a lot. We went to uh it
was kind of a general restaurant at North Gate and I
can't remember the name of it uh a lot of guys went to
a restaurant at the building still there called
Youngbloods. I guess I went there a few times. We
would go to Kelly's in downtown Bryan and Hotart's
Cafeteria and Kelly's was a hotel coffee shop I
think and
There were two or three drive-ins on College
Avenue. The Texan was a drive-in, and there was
another one, I don't remember what the name of it
was, but there were... Was Martin's BBQ going
then? I believe it was, but it had the aura of being
more of a beer joint than a food place, at least to
me, I don't know. I know that you were not a drinker.
Did you have any personal policy that if they
served alcohol, you didn't go? No. No, I didn't
that, but there were some places that you just had
the impression that the food service was totally
secondary. Now, was Uncle Ed's going in that Hard
Liquors? I'm not sure I know. Down Welborn Road? I
don't know exactly when it was there. I don't
remember that at all. It was a Czech man.